docs: document AI token usage tracking and dashboard (#7431) (#7495)
elastic/docs-content: explore-analyze/ai-features/manage-access-to-ai-assistant.md

::::
:::::

### Track token usage across AI features
```{applies_to}
stack: ga 9.5
serverless: ga
```

**Token usage tracking** is turned off by default. When you turn it on, Elastic records the token counts for each completed request that AI features send to an LLM, and makes a managed dashboard available to monitor them. To change this setting, you need the `Advanced Settings: all` {{kib}} privilege.

For each request, Elastic records the number of prompt, completion, and total tokens, along with the model, connector, and the feature that made the request.

> To review usage, open the **[Elastic] Inference Token Usage** dashboard from the [Dashboards](/explore-analyze/dashboards.md) page. It summarizes:

Author: ```suggestion
To review usage, open the **[Elastic] Inference Token Usage** dashboard from the Dashboards app. It summarizes:
```

::::
:::::

### Track token usage across AI features
```{applies_to}
stack: ga 9.5
serverless: ga
```

**Token usage tracking** is turned off by default. When you turn it on, Elastic records the token counts for each completed request that AI features send to an LLM through the {{kib}} inference service, and makes a managed dashboard available to monitor them.

To start tracking, go to **GenAI Settings** and turn on **Token usage tracking**. You need the `Advanced Settings: all` {{kib}} privilege to change this setting.

For each request, Elastic records the number of prompt, completion, and total tokens, along with the model, connector, and the feature that made the request.

> After you turn on tracking, the managed **[Elastic] Inference Token Usage** dashboard becomes available on the [Dashboards](/explore-analyze/dashboards.md) page. Open it to review usage. It summarizes:

Author: ```suggestion
After you turn on tracking, the managed **[Elastic] Inference Token Usage** dashboard becomes available on the Dashboards app. Open it to review usage. It summarizes:
```

- Total, prompt, and completion tokens, and the total number of requests.
- Token usage over time, broken down by feature.
- Token usage by feature and by model.

> If you open the dashboard right after turning on tracking and its breakdown panels show an error or no data, reload the page to refresh the dashboard's fields.

Author: ```suggestion
:::{tip}
If you open the dashboard right after turning on tracking and its breakdown panels show an error or no data, reload {{kib}} to refresh the dashboard's fields.
:::
```
